After Twenty Years by O. Henry

The policeman on the beat moved up the avenue impressively. The impressiveness was
habitual and not for show, for spectators were few. The time was barely 10 o'clock at night, but
chilly gusts of wind with a taste of rain in them had well nigh depeopled the streets.

Trying doors as he went, twirling his club with many intricate and artful movements, turning
now and then to cast his watchful eye adown the pacific thoroughfare, the officer, with his
stalwart form and slight swagger, made a fine picture of a guardian of the peace. The vicinity
was one that kept early hours. Now and then you might see the lights of a cigar store or of an
all-night lunch counter, but the majority of the doors belonged to business places that had long
since been closed.

When about midway of a certain block the policeman suddenly slowed his walk. In the doorway
of a darkened hardware store, a man leaned, with an unlighted cigar in his mouth. As the
policeman walked up to him the man spoke up quickly.

"It's all right, officer," he said, reassuringly. "I'm just waiting for a friend. It's an appointment
made twenty years ago. Sounds a little funny to you, doesn't it? Well, I'll explain if you'd like to
make certain it's all straight. About that long ago there used to be a restaurant where this store
stands--'Big Joe' Brady's restaurant."

"Until five years ago," said the policeman. "It was torn down then."

The man in the doorway struck a match and lit his cigar. The light showed a pale, square-jawed
face with keen eyes, and a little white scar near his right eyebrow. His scarfpin was a large
diamond, oddly set.

"Well, yes, for a time we corresponded," said the other. "But after a year or two we lost track of
each other. You see, the West is a pretty big proposition, and I kept hustling around over it
pretty lively. But I know Jimmy will meet me here if he's alive, for he always was the truest,

stanchest old chap in the world. He'll never forget. I came a thousand miles to stand in this door
to-night, and it's worth it if my old partner turns up."

The waiting man pulled out a handsome watch, the lids of it set with small diamonds.
"Three minutes to ten," he announced. "It was exactly ten o'clock when we parted here at the
restaurant door."

"Did pretty well out West, didn't you?" asked the policeman.